Figure 1.6 Example of face detection. (a) Input image (Murphy family, photo taken 5 August 2010). Used with kind permission of Bernard Diedrich of Sherwood Studios. (b) Output of classifier, which detected 5 faces at different poses. This was produced using the online demo at http://demo.pittpatt.com/. The classifier was trained on 1000s of manually labeled images of faces and non-faces, and then was applied to a dense set of overlapping patches in the test image. Only the patches whose probability of containing a face was sufficiently high were returned. Used with kind permission of Pittpatt.com.
Face detection and recognition.
A harder problem is to find objects within an image; this is called object detection or object localization. An important special case of this is face detection. One approach to this problem is to divide the image into many small overlapping patches at different locations, scales and orientations, and to classify each such patch based on whether it contains face-like texture or not. This is called a sliding window detector. The system then returns those locations where the probability of face is sufficiently high. See Figure 1.6 for an example. Such face detection systems are built-in to most modern digital cameras; the locations of the detected faces are used to determine the center of the auto-focus. Another application is automatically blurring out faces in Google's StreetView system.
Having found the faces, one can then proceed to perform face recognition, which means estimating the identity of the person (see Figure 1.10(a)). In this case, the number of class labels might be very large. Also, the features one should use are likely to be different than in the face detection problem: for recognition, subtle differences between faces such as hairstyle may be important for determining identity, but for detection, it is important to be invariant to such details, and to just focus on the differences between faces and non-faces. For more information about visual object detection, see e.g., (Szeliski 2010).
1.2.2 Regression.
Regression is just like classification except the response variable is continuous. Figure 1.7 shows a simple example: we have a single real-valued input xi ∈ R, and a single real-valued response yi ∈ R. We consider fitting two models to the data: a straight line and a quadratic function. (We explain how to fit such models below.) Various extensions of this basic problem can arise, such as having high-dimensional inputs, outliers, non-smooth responses, etc. We will discuss ways to handle such problems later in the book.
degree 1.
degree 2.